Let's take a moment to
talk about another aspect
of creating objects that's quite
interesting and quite useful.
So useful in fact that many libraries and
frameworks include a very
similar feature called extend.
And extend is possible because
of something called reflection.
But first reflection sounds complicated.
No, it's not.
Big word alert.
Reflection: an object can look at itself,
listing and
changing its properties and methods.
So a JavaScript object has the ability to
look at its own properties and methods.
We can use that to implement a very
useful pattern called extend.
Here I have my person object again,
and my john object.
Don't ever do this in real life,
setting the prototype.
So John's prototype is person.
Now, we're going to show an example
of refection in JavaScript.
I'm going to use the for
in statement in JavaScript.
If you're not used to that,
it's something like for each, but
I can say for and declare a variable.
Let's call it prop for property and
then in and then john.
What this will do is loop over
every member in the object.
For in.
Kind of like looking at the length of an
array and looping across all of its items.
We can loop across a collection.
And for every loop we'll have a variable
called prop that will be the current item
that we're looking at.
So this is going to loop over all
of the members of the john object.
And I can simply console.log.
Remember, those are name value pairs.
So prop will contain the name.
I'll just put a colon.
And then I'll go look at the john object,
and grab the value based on the name.
And remember that I don't
have to use the dot operator,
I can use the brackets operator, which
accepts a string as the property name.
And I'll just do that.
So this is going to loop over everything,
every property and method in this object.
This will be the name and then I'll
use that name to go grab the value.
Make sense?
All right.
Ta da.
The name, the value.
The name and the value.
And hey, wait a minute.
You get full name.
Remember the get full name is
actually on the prototype.
So, this for in actually reached out and
grabbed every property
and method not just on the object but
also on the object's prototype.
Well, that can be useful, but
what if I just want to know
what's on the object itself.
There is a way to do that,
I can say if john and then I can check.
There's a property on that base object way
down below so it's on the prototype chain.
It will be, I look for hasOwnProperty.
This doesn't sit on John,
it doesn't sit on person.
It sits on that base object
that JavaScript has.
This is a method on that base object.
And what you can give it is a string.
I can say firstname, and this will tell me
if this object really has this property.
If it does it will return true.
If this property isn't on that object,
maybe it's on the prototype or
maybe it's not anywhere
in the prototype chain,
It will return false, so I can check and
see if this prop string is
actually on the john object so
it will only log it if
it's really on there.
So what I should see, there.
First name, last name.
Because that's what is
really on the object.
So I can reflect on the John object, look
at its properties, look at what's called
metadata of its properties whether it’s
really attached to that object or not.
List it, and I can change it and
do thing with it.
This concept in turn lets us implement
an idea, that's also very useful.
A complement to prototypal inheritance so
to speak, but
it’s not built in to JavaScript.
So, many frameworks and
libraries build it themselves, right?
Some version of it,
because it's so useful.
Let's use the underscore library.
I've already grabbed underscore.js, and
I'll show you what this looks like.
It's called extend.
I'm going to go ahead and
make a jane object again,
but she's just going to have address and
a getFormalFullName function.
Got that?
So she has a property.
And a method that I may find useful.
So does jim.
We'll make another one.
And he's got another property I may
find useful, getFirstName, let's say.
And this will just return the firstname.
Notice that I'm not putting
these into the prototype chain.
Maybe I don't want for some reason, maybe
they have a lot of other properties and
methods I don't want to be in that
prototype chain for one reason or another.
Or maybe I want to simply
use them in a different way.
Maybe they are useful individually,
but not as prototypes of each other.
So, what I can do with
the underscore library, for example,
_.extend(john, is what I want to extend.
And then I can give it other objects,
a list of other objects.
And what this does is composes or
combines these objects.
It takes all the properties and methods
of these other objects that I give it and
it could be a big long list and
adds them directly to john for me.
I could do this myself, but
this is a really nice feature.
So, if I output John, you'll notice that
he now has the address from the Jane
object, the getFirstName function from
the Jim object, and the getFormalFullName
function from the Jane object,
as well as his original firstname and
lastname properties.
And he still has his prototype
which is the person object
where I have get FullName.
So you saw this is very different
from the prototype chain.
This physically, actually placed
the properties onto the john object.
We composed, we combined them.
How does this work?
Let's go to our _.JS source code.
Remember, you want to not be afraid
of getting an open source education,
of looking at this
beautiful source code and
learning from it, and we have
the tools we need to understand it.
Al right, so I'm gonna look for extend.
Okay, I found it.
It's creating this property or
this method on this object which
is just called underscore.
It's calling a createAssigner function,
so we need to go find that.
Let's see if we can find, there it is.
Create a signer.
Well, this is actually
a function that makes sense and
it takes some keys and
then it returns a function itself.
All right, so this is creating a closure.
Remember that?
So this is the function that's actually
getting run when we call the extend.
And it has a closure access
to these other ones.
All right, so It looks at the arguments.
Remember the arguments is all
the properties passed in.
And it looks at the length, and
it says, oh, if length is less than 2,
then just give me back the object
that I passed in to add on to.
Well, that makes sense.
If I didn't pass anything else,
if length was 1,
then just give me back John cuz I didn't
give you anything to add on to john.
That's what that's saying right there.
If the number of parameters passed
to this function is less than two,
then just give me back this first one.
All right, so
now it's doing a loop across length.
Length is the number of
parameters I passed in.
So that makes sense too,
but it's starting with one.
So it's skipping that first one.
Because remember, arrays are zero based.
So it skips index zero.
So it skips john and
it moves onto the rest of the parameters.
And remember, I can add other parameters
here and I don't have to actually
list them if they're available
via the arguments keyword.
All right, so it loops through all
of the other parameters that I pass,
in this case jane and jim.
Make sense?
And it says, all right, go find that
parameter, so index one would be jane.
That becomes the source, keysfunc,
we won't bother looking at that,
but the keys are those property names,
the names part of the name value pair.
So it goes and grabs the name of all
the properties of that object, so
it grabs the names of the jane object,
of all its properties and methods,
and the jim object, all its properties and
methods, on each of these loops.
So the first loop,
all of Jane's properties and methods.
And loops through them using a for
loop across the length of that array.
So jane had two properties and methods,
so this will be a two, and it'll loop
across those and then what does it do?
It grabs each property and method and
it double checks that it's really there
and then it updates my obj, which was
the john object, the first thing passed in
and sets its property or method.
It creates a new property or
method with that name to that property or
method of that object that I
passed in to be copied from.
And it does it again for the next one, and
so on and so forth until it finishes
the rest of the parameters.
So what this is doing here
is it's using reflection.
It's looking at the lists of properties
and methods, like we've already tried, and
it's setting the property and
method of my john object,
of my destination object
with all of my sources.
So it's just basically two loops,
one inside the other.
One loop across all the list of
objects I added as sources, and
one across each of those properties and
methods.
So, it loops across these two and
inside each of these,
it loops across its properties and
methods and adds them to John.
Using reflection, using the fact
that I can set John's properties and
methods with the brackets operator and
then string name.
It sees that Jane has an address so
it sets John an address in brackets
equal to Jane an address in brackets.
It's copying over a reference
to those properties and methods.
That's pretty neat.
So, when all is said and done,
John now contains all the properties and
methods of these originals.
So do you see how reflection is useful,
and especially extend.
This shows up in a lot of frameworks and
libraries, because it is so useful.
You can compose objects.
You don't even need
the prototype chain always.
I can use this pattern and
it's quite powerful.
And by looking at the source code
of underscore, I learned something.
I learned how to write some better code.
I learned something useful
that I could reuse myself.
I could even pull that extend
method out of underscore,
if I pulled along with it
whatever it relied on, and
could just have it by itself in my own
library that I use for my own project.
Pretty cool.
One caveat here.
In the next version of JavaScript,
there also will be something called,
extends, with an s.
That's going to be used
to set the prototype.
I think that's a little unfortunate
because I liked the concept of extend,
but that'll still be around.
It's just a very similar keyword
will mean the prototype.
When we talk about this,
we will be talking about this composition,
we'll see what happens over time.
But for now, understand that you can
use reflection to also have this extend
pattern, not just the prototype pattern
to combine and compose objects.
All right, lets move on.